this moment of Peace helps Danny
Plunkett forget his troubled past he's
three years into his yoga practice
inhale to upward dog and 26 years into a
prison sentence for murder and robbery
some number of years in in some pretty
rough prisons and you carry that with
you you carry a lot of that violence
with you he's serving time at San
Quinton State Prison a notorious lockup
on the San Francisco Bay it's not a
place where you'd expect to find
hardened criminals resting in a Lotus
but twice a week instructor James Fox
makes his way through the prison yard to
lead a truly captive audience including
former gang member Darnell Washington
when I used to see it see people do I
like oh yoga's just soft you know but
once I got involved in it and the
position he was holding is like now it's
like okay this is really like hurting
prisoners started rolling out their mats
here 13 years ago it's not easy to claim
a spot there's a wait list look forward
Fox started this program and expanded it
now prisons and jails across the country
are bringing in yoga instructors to help
rehabilitate offenders through
alternative means violent offenders are
going to return to
society what kind of person do you want
to run into on the highway on the subway
James has trained other volunteers who
are now teaching at more than 100
facilities across the country inhal in
Danny could be released as as early as
next year I'm not reacting and uh I can
pause I live in a pause so to speak he
says yoga gave him a new sense of self
that will help him start a better life
on the outside Kenneth Craig CBS News
San Quinton California